sdks/python/README.md, before:

# Argo Python SDK

This is the Python SDK for Argo Workflows.

## Requirements

Python >= 3.6

## Installation

If you'd like to install the official releases of the SDK on PyPI, please run the following:

```sh
pip install argo-workflows
```

Otherwise, you can install the latest development version of the SDK via the following:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows@main#subdirectory=sdks/python/client
```

If you have any questions regarding which specific SDK version to use, please see the section on [versioning](#versioning).

## Getting Started

You can submit a workflow from a raw YAML like the following:

```python
from pprint import pprint

import requests
import yaml

import argo_workflows
from argo_workflows.api import workflow_service_api
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_workflow_create_request import (
    IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowCreateRequest,
)

configuration = argo_workflows.Configuration(host="https://127.0.0.1:2746")
configuration.verify_ssl = False

resp = requests.get('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/main/examples/hello-world.yaml')
manifest = yaml.safe_load(resp.text)

api_client = argo_workflows.ApiClient(configuration)
api_instance = workflow_service_api.WorkflowServiceApi(api_client)
api_response = api_instance.create_workflow(
    namespace="argo",
    body=IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowCreateRequest(workflow=manifest, _check_type=False),
    _check_return_type=False)
pprint(api_response)

```

Note that `_check_type=False` is required here to avoid type checks against `manifest` which is a Python dictionary and `_check_return_type=False` avoids [an existing issue](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/issues/7293) with OpenAPI generator.

Alternative, you can submit a workflow with an instance of `IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Workflow` constructed via the SDK
like the following:

```python
from pprint import pprint

import argo_workflows
from argo_workflows.api import workflow_service_api
from argo_workflows.model.container import Container
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_template import IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Template
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_workflow import IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Workflow
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_workflow_create_request import (
    IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowCreateRequest,
)
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_workflow_spec import (
    IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowSpec,
)
from argo_workflows.model.object_meta import ObjectMeta

configuration = argo_workflows.Configuration(host="https://127.0.0.1:2746")
configuration.verify_ssl = False

manifest = IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Workflow(
    metadata=ObjectMeta(generate_name='hello-world-'),
    spec=IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowSpec(
        entrypoint='whalesay',
        templates=[
            IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Template(
                name='whalesay',
                container=Container(
                    image='docker/whalesay:latest', command=['cowsay'], args=['hello world']))]))

api_client = argo_workflows.ApiClient(configuration)
api_instance = workflow_service_api.WorkflowServiceApi(api_client)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    api_response = api_instance.create_workflow(
        namespace='argo',
        body=IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowCreateRequest(workflow=manifest),
        _check_return_type=False)
    pprint(api_response)

```

## Examples

You can find additional examples [here](tests).

## API Reference

You can find the API reference [here](client/docs).

## Versioning

When the Python SDK was migrated to this repository, we kept the `argo-workflows` name for the Python
package since we wanted to publish it to the same package on PyPI. However, the existing `argo-workflows`
package was on version `5.0.0` already whereas Argo Workflows was still on `3.x.x`.

In order to make it easier indicate backwards compatibility between the SDK version and the Argo Workflows
releases, we bump the Python SDK major version by 3 and keep the minor and patch versions. For example,
Python SDK with version `6.3.0rc2` is released with Argo Workflows `v3.3.0-rc2`. Note that the hyphen
in `-rc2` is removed intentionally to follow Python package versioning conventions documented in [PEP-0440](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0440/).

Commit message:

docs: mark generated python SDK as deprecated (#13719)
Signed-off-by: Alan Clucas <alan@clucas.org>
Co-authored-by: Anton Gilgur <4970083+agilgur5@users.noreply.github.com>

sdks/python/README.md, after:

# Argo Python SDK

This is the Python SDK for Argo Workflows.

> [!WARNING]
> This SDK is deprecated and will be removed in version 3.7 of Argo Workflows.
> We recommend migrating to [Hera](https://github.com/argoproj-labs/hera).

## Requirements

Python >= 3.6

## Installation

If you'd like to install the official releases of the SDK on PyPI, please run the following:

```sh
pip install argo-workflows
```

Otherwise, you can install the latest development version of the SDK via the following:

```sh
pip install git+https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows@main#subdirectory=sdks/python/client
```

If you have any questions regarding which specific SDK version to use, please see the section on [versioning](#versioning).

## Getting Started

You can submit a workflow from a raw YAML like the following:

```python
from pprint import pprint

import requests
import yaml

import argo_workflows
from argo_workflows.api import workflow_service_api
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_workflow_create_request import (
    IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowCreateRequest,
)

configuration = argo_workflows.Configuration(host="https://127.0.0.1:2746")
configuration.verify_ssl = False

resp = requests.get('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/main/examples/hello-world.yaml')
manifest = yaml.safe_load(resp.text)

api_client = argo_workflows.ApiClient(configuration)
api_instance = workflow_service_api.WorkflowServiceApi(api_client)
api_response = api_instance.create_workflow(
    namespace="argo",
    body=IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowCreateRequest(workflow=manifest, _check_type=False),
    _check_return_type=False)
pprint(api_response)

```

Note that `_check_type=False` is required here to avoid type checks against `manifest` which is a Python dictionary and `_check_return_type=False` avoids [an existing issue](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/issues/7293) with OpenAPI generator.

Alternative, you can submit a workflow with an instance of `IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Workflow` constructed via the SDK
like the following:

```python
from pprint import pprint

import argo_workflows
from argo_workflows.api import workflow_service_api
from argo_workflows.model.container import Container
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_template import IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Template
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_workflow import IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Workflow
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_workflow_create_request import (
    IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowCreateRequest,
)
from argo_workflows.model.io_argoproj_workflow_v1alpha1_workflow_spec import (
    IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowSpec,
)
from argo_workflows.model.object_meta import ObjectMeta

configuration = argo_workflows.Configuration(host="https://127.0.0.1:2746")
configuration.verify_ssl = False

manifest = IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Workflow(
    metadata=ObjectMeta(generate_name='hello-world-'),
    spec=IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowSpec(
        entrypoint='whalesay',
        templates=[
            IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1Template(
                name='whalesay',
                container=Container(
                    image='docker/whalesay:latest', command=['cowsay'], args=['hello world']))]))

api_client = argo_workflows.ApiClient(configuration)
api_instance = workflow_service_api.WorkflowServiceApi(api_client)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    api_response = api_instance.create_workflow(
        namespace='argo',
        body=IoArgoprojWorkflowV1alpha1WorkflowCreateRequest(workflow=manifest),
        _check_return_type=False)
    pprint(api_response)

```

## Examples

You can find additional examples [here](tests).

## API Reference

You can find the API reference [here](client/docs).

## Versioning

When the Python SDK was migrated to this repository, we kept the `argo-workflows` name for the Python
package since we wanted to publish it to the same package on PyPI. However, the existing `argo-workflows`
package was on version `5.0.0` already whereas Argo Workflows was still on `3.x.x`.

In order to make it easier indicate backwards compatibility between the SDK version and the Argo Workflows
releases, we bump the Python SDK major version by 3 and keep the minor and patch versions. For example,
Python SDK with version `6.3.0rc2` is released with Argo Workflows `v3.3.0-rc2`. Note that the hyphen
in `-rc2` is removed intentionally to follow Python package versioning conventions documented in [PEP-0440](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0440/).
