docs/workflow-concepts.md, before:

# Core Concepts

This page serves as an introduction to the core concepts of Argo Workflows.

## The `Workflow`

The [`Workflow`](fields.md#workflow) is the most important resource in Argo Workflows and serves two important functions:

1. It defines the workflow to be executed.
1. It stores the state of the workflow.

Because of these dual responsibilities, a `Workflow` should be treated as a "live" object.
It is not only a static definition, but is also an "instance" of said definition.
(If it isn't clear what this means, it will be explained below).

### Workflow Spec

The workflow to be executed is defined in the [`Workflow.spec`](fields.md#workflowspec) field.
The core structure of a Workflow spec is a list of [`templates`](fields.md#template) and an `entrypoint`.

[`templates`](fields.md#template) can be loosely thought of as "functions": they define instructions to be executed.
The `entrypoint` field defines what the "main" function will be – that is, the template that will be executed first.

Here is an example of a simple `Workflow` spec with a single `template`:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: hello-world-  # Name of this Workflow
spec:
  entrypoint: hello-world     # Defines "hello-world" as the "main" template
  templates:
  - name: hello-world         # Defines the "hello-world" template
    container:
      image: busybox
      command: [echo]
      args: ["hello world"]   # This template runs "echo" in the "busybox" image with arguments "hello world"
```

### `template` Types

There are 9 types of templates, divided into two different categories.

#### Template Definitions

These templates _define_ work to be done, usually in a Container.

##### [Container](fields.md#container)

Perhaps the most common template type, it will schedule a Container.
The spec of the template is the same as the [Kubernetes container spec](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#Container), so you can define a container here the same way you do anywhere else in Kubernetes.

Example:

```yaml
  - name: hello-world
    container:
      image: busybox
      command: [echo]
      args: ["hello world"]
```

##### [Script](fields.md#scripttemplate)

A convenience wrapper around a `container`.
The spec is the same as a container, but adds the `source:` field which allows you to define a script in-place.
The script will be saved into a file and executed for you.
The result of the script is automatically exported into an [Argo variable](./variables.md) either `{{tasks.<NAME>.outputs.result}}` or `{{steps.<NAME>.outputs.result}}`, depending how it was called.

Example:

```yaml
  - name: gen-random-int
    script:
      image: python:alpine3.6
      command: [python]
      source: |
        import random
        i = random.randint(1, 100)
        print(i)
```

##### [Resource](fields.md#resourcetemplate)

Performs operations on cluster Resources directly.
It can be used to get, create, apply, delete, replace, or patch resources on your cluster.

This example creates a `ConfigMap` resource on the cluster:

```yaml
  - name: k8s-owner-reference
    resource:
      action: create
      manifest: |
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: ConfigMap
        metadata:
          generateName: owned-eg-
        data:
          some: value
```

##### [Suspend](fields.md#suspendtemplate)

A suspend template will suspend execution, either for a duration or until it is resumed manually.
Suspend templates can be resumed from the CLI (with `argo resume`), the [API endpoint](swagger.md), or the UI.

Example:

```yaml
  - name: delay
    suspend:
      duration: "20s"
```

##### [Plugin](fields.md#plugin)

A [Plugin Template](plugins.md) allows you to reference an executor plugin.

Example:

```yaml
  - name: main
    plugin:
      slack:
        text: "{{workflow.name}} finished!"
```

##### [Container Set](fields.md#containersettemplate)

A [container set template](container-set-template.md) is similar to a normal container or script template, but allows you to specify multiple containers to run within a single pod.

##### [HTTP](fields.md#http)

An [HTTP Template](http-template.md) is a type of template which can execute HTTP Requests. The body of the response is automatically exported into the result output parameter.

#### Template Invocators

These templates are used to invoke/call other templates and provide execution control.

##### [Steps](fields.md#workflowstep)

A steps template allows you to define your tasks in a series of steps.
The structure of the template is a "list of lists". Outer lists will run sequentially and inner lists will run in parallel.
If you want to run inner lists one by one, use the [Synchronization](fields.md#synchronization) feature.
You can set a wide array of options to control execution, such as [`when:` clauses to conditionally execute a step](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/main/examples/coinflip.yaml).

In this example `step1` runs first. Once it is completed, `step2a` and `step2b` will run in parallel:

```yaml
  - name: hello-hello-hello
    steps:
    - - name: step1
        template: prepare-data
    - - name: step2a
        template: run-data-first-half
      - name: step2b
        template: run-data-second-half
```

##### [DAG](fields.md#dagtemplate)

A dag template allows you to define your tasks as a graph of dependencies.
In a DAG, you list all your tasks and set which other tasks must complete before a particular task can begin.
Tasks without any dependencies will be run immediately.

In this example `A` runs first. Once it is completed, `B` and `C` will run in parallel and once they both complete, `D` will run:

```yaml
  - name: diamond
    dag:
      tasks:
      - name: A
        template: echo
      - name: B
        dependencies: [A]
        template: echo
      - name: C
        dependencies: [A]
        template: echo
      - name: D
        dependencies: [B, C]
        template: echo
```

## Architecture

If you are interested in Argo Workflows' underlying architecture, see [Architecture](architecture.md).

Commit message:

docs: clarify that container templates have an automatic result output (#14292)
Signed-off-by: Tim Collins <tim@thecollins.team>

docs/workflow-concepts.md, after:

# Core Concepts

This page serves as an introduction to the core concepts of Argo Workflows.

## The `Workflow`

The [`Workflow`](fields.md#workflow) is the most important resource in Argo Workflows and serves two important functions:

1. It defines the workflow to be executed.
1. It stores the state of the workflow.

Because of these dual responsibilities, a `Workflow` should be treated as a "live" object.
It is not only a static definition, but is also an "instance" of said definition.
(If it isn't clear what this means, it will be explained below).

### Workflow Spec

The workflow to be executed is defined in the [`Workflow.spec`](fields.md#workflowspec) field.
The core structure of a Workflow spec is a list of [`templates`](fields.md#template) and an `entrypoint`.

[`templates`](fields.md#template) can be loosely thought of as "functions": they define instructions to be executed.
The `entrypoint` field defines what the "main" function will be – that is, the template that will be executed first.

Here is an example of a simple `Workflow` spec with a single `template`:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Workflow
metadata:
  generateName: hello-world-  # Name of this Workflow
spec:
  entrypoint: hello-world     # Defines "hello-world" as the "main" template
  templates:
  - name: hello-world         # Defines the "hello-world" template
    container:
      image: busybox
      command: [echo]
      args: ["hello world"]   # This template runs "echo" in the "busybox" image with arguments "hello world"
```

### `template` Types

There are 9 types of templates, divided into two different categories.

#### Template Definitions

These templates _define_ work to be done, usually in a Container.

##### [Container](fields.md#container)

Perhaps the most common template type, it will schedule a Container.
The spec of the template is the same as the [Kubernetes container spec](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/pod-v1/#Container), so you can define a container here the same way you do anywhere else in Kubernetes.
The standard output of the container is automatically exported into an [Argo variable](./variables.md) either `{{tasks.<NAME>.outputs.result}}` or `{{steps.<NAME>.outputs.result}}`, depending how it was called.

Example:

```yaml
  - name: hello-world
    container:
      image: busybox
      command: [echo]
      args: ["hello world"]
```

##### [Script](fields.md#scripttemplate)

A convenience wrapper around a `container`.
The spec is the same as a container, but adds the `source:` field which allows you to define a script in-place.
The script will be saved into a file and executed for you.
The standard output of the script is automatically exported into an [Argo variable](./variables.md) in the same way as a Container Template.

Example:

```yaml
  - name: gen-random-int
    script:
      image: python:alpine3.6
      command: [python]
      source: |
        import random
        i = random.randint(1, 100)
        print(i)
```

##### [Resource](fields.md#resourcetemplate)

Performs operations on cluster Resources directly.
It can be used to get, create, apply, delete, replace, or patch resources on your cluster.

This example creates a `ConfigMap` resource on the cluster:

```yaml
  - name: k8s-owner-reference
    resource:
      action: create
      manifest: |
        apiVersion: v1
        kind: ConfigMap
        metadata:
          generateName: owned-eg-
        data:
          some: value
```

##### [Suspend](fields.md#suspendtemplate)

A suspend template will suspend execution, either for a duration or until it is resumed manually.
Suspend templates can be resumed from the CLI (with `argo resume`), the [API endpoint](swagger.md), or the UI.

Example:

```yaml
  - name: delay
    suspend:
      duration: "20s"
```

##### [Plugin](fields.md#plugin)

A [Plugin Template](plugins.md) allows you to reference an executor plugin.

Example:

```yaml
  - name: main
    plugin:
      slack:
        text: "{{workflow.name}} finished!"
```

##### [Container Set](fields.md#containersettemplate)

A [container set template](container-set-template.md) is similar to a normal container or script template, but allows you to specify multiple containers to run within a single pod.

##### [HTTP](fields.md#http)

An [HTTP Template](http-template.md) is a type of template which can execute HTTP Requests. The body of the response is automatically exported into the result output parameter.

#### Template Invocators

These templates are used to invoke/call other templates and provide execution control.

##### [Steps](fields.md#workflowstep)

A steps template allows you to define your tasks in a series of steps.
The structure of the template is a "list of lists". Outer lists will run sequentially and inner lists will run in parallel.
If you want to run inner lists one by one, use the [Synchronization](fields.md#synchronization) feature.
You can set a wide array of options to control execution, such as [`when:` clauses to conditionally execute a step](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/main/examples/coinflip.yaml).

In this example `step1` runs first. Once it is completed, `step2a` and `step2b` will run in parallel:

```yaml
  - name: hello-hello-hello
    steps:
    - - name: step1
        template: prepare-data
    - - name: step2a
        template: run-data-first-half
      - name: step2b
        template: run-data-second-half
```

##### [DAG](fields.md#dagtemplate)

A dag template allows you to define your tasks as a graph of dependencies.
In a DAG, you list all your tasks and set which other tasks must complete before a particular task can begin.
Tasks without any dependencies will be run immediately.

In this example `A` runs first. Once it is completed, `B` and `C` will run in parallel and once they both complete, `D` will run:

```yaml
  - name: diamond
    dag:
      tasks:
      - name: A
        template: echo
      - name: B
        dependencies: [A]
        template: echo
      - name: C
        dependencies: [A]
        template: echo
      - name: D
        dependencies: [B, C]
        template: echo
```

## Architecture

If you are interested in Argo Workflows' underlying architecture, see [Architecture](architecture.md).
